Do i need a chain verifier func?

Public key difference as well



Nonce range
Add:

if self.nonce < 0: raise ValueError("nonce must be non-negative")

Prevent accidental mutation during tests
Rule: once created, don’t change fields. If you want a guard, you can document it, or later make it immutable. Not required now.



Block batch size is consistent 50. If wanting to add variance (randomness to the size) it must be specified and reasoning behind why it would be important to test that.

BLockchain creates the block objects. Blocks are not passed to the blockcchain object as a final step, as is how normal applications are. Its done this way because its simpler and does not affect things.


https://teams.microsoft.com/l/message/19:meeting_Y2U0YzYxNDktMjMzOS00NWMzLTg3MzQtN2FjZDY5MTYwNWVi@thread.v2/1773227187881?context=%7B%22contextType%22%3A%22chat%22%7D
https://hackmd.io/@7dpNYqjKQGeYC7wMlPxHtQ/BykLXgq1s

https://csrc.nist.gov/csrc/media/Projects/post-quantum-cryptography/documents/pqc-seminars/presentations/7-batch-me-if-you-pq-sign-07212023.pdf


Do i add the replay protection thing with nonces to make it more real? "Nonces were included in the transaction structure and cryptographically bound to the signed message to support uniqueness and replay-resistance semantics. However, strict stateful nonce enforcement was not the primary focus of this testbed, whose main objective was comparative signature evaluation."


In your JSON measurement, a few bytes of variation is normal because timestamps are different and you’re measuring a text format.


CHECK PUBLIC KEY SIZE


In the poster metric collection, i have put the public keys for ecdsa in memory as the specific library would have to reconstruct it from bytes, adding extra time/computation



ECDSA verification performance is highly implementation-dependent. In our tests, Python cryptography produced substantially higher verification latency than a libsecp256k1-backed implementation, showing that library choice materially affects measured performance.




https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-642-31410-0_1


https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/2011



The same specs (sender, nonce, payload) are reused for all three modes. build_transactions just re-signs them with different algorithms each time.
So the payloads are identical across classical, pq, and hybrid — which is the correct approach for a fair benchmark, since you're isolating the cost of the signature scheme, not the payload.




When you have raw key bytes, before you can actually use them cryptographically you have to deserialise them — parse the DER encoding, validate the elliptic curve point, and construct a Python object that the cryptography library can work with. This takes time and happens every single call in version 1.
Version 2 recognises that if you're going to be calling sign() and verify() many times, you're likely going to encounter the same keys repeatedly. So instead of throwing away the deserialised key object after each call and reconstructing it from scratch next time, it stores it in a dictionary keyed by the raw bytes.
The next time the same key bytes come in, it finds the already-constructed object in the dictionary and uses it directly, completely bypassing the deserialisation step. The actual cryptographic operation — the signing or verification itself — still happens every time, only the setup work is skipped.
In version 1, _pk_cache was declared in __init__ but never read from or written to anywhere, so it was essentially a mistake or an unfinished intention. Version 2 completes that intention for both the public and private key caches.


When you call verify() with a public key, the raw bytes have to be parsed and validated as a point on the elliptic curve before they can be used. This is the expensive part.
Without the cache, every single verification call does this parsing from scratch, even if you've seen that exact public key before.
With the cache, the first time you see a public key you parse it and store the resulting object. Every subsequent call with the same key skips the parsing entirely and goes straight to the actual signature verification using the already-built object.
Since there are only 6 authors, after the first 6 verifications the cache is fully warm and every remaining verification — across all 100 transactions — skips the parsing step completely.


whole digest thing





Regarding commit "a710d6a7"

Both versions always store the full payload in to_dict():
python"payload": self.payload.hex()
That never changes — the raw payload is always in the transaction record.
The difference is in canonical_unsigned_bytes, which produces the bytes that get signed by the cryptographic algorithms and hashed into tx_id.
Version 1 signs:
json{"nonce": 1, "payload": "deadbeef...full hex...", "sender_id": "alice"}
The full payload is embedded inside what gets signed. If payload is 10MB, you're signing 10MB of data.
Version 2 signs:
json{"nonce": 1, "payload_hash": "a3f1c2...", "sender_id": "alice"}
Only a 64-character SHA-256 digest is embedded. The payload itself sits separately in the transaction record but is not directly in the signed bytes.
Why version 2 is still secure — if anyone tampers with the payload, the SHA-256 digest won't match anymore, so the signature verification fails. The binding is just indirect rather than direct.
Why version 2 is better practically:

Fixed-size signed data regardless of payload size
Dilithium and ECDSA both internally hash their input anyway, so version 1 is essentially double-encoding a potentially huge payload for no security gain
Cleaner separation between "what identifies the transaction" and "what the transaction carries"



per-block timing



derive stuff on the fly (compute)


show public and private key sizes of signatures


Supervisor mentioned that ECDSA can now be cracked or something (said this 2/4)


3. Jacobian coordinates — already done for you
Any serious library handles this. Mentioning it because you'd feel it immediately if it were missing — affine arithmetic would be roughly 10× slower. Just make sure you're using a production library like libsecp256k1, not rolling your own.
Maybe what cryptography library was doing ^



ECDSA
The best optimisations, ranked honestly
The answer depends on your context, but if forced to rank by impact:
1. Precomputed G tables — biggest single win, essentially free
Since G never changes, you pay the precomputation once at build time and every k·G operation becomes fast table lookups forever. This touches every single signature verification. No tradeoffs, no complexity cost worth worrying about. Do this unconditionally.
2. GLV endomorphism — massive gain, secp256k1 specific
Halves the effective scalar size, which roughly halves the cost of every scalar multiplication. The endomorphism itself is nearly free to compute on secp256k1. Again, no real tradeoff. Combined with precomputed tables this is your baseline — everything else builds on top of these two.
3. Jacobian coordinates — already done for you
Any serious library handles this. Mentioning it because you'd feel it immediately if it were missing — affine arithmetic would be roughly 10× slower. Just make sure you're using a production library like libsecp256k1, not rolling your own.
4. Pippenger batching — transformative at scale
Once you're dealing with hundreds of signatures at a time (block validation, IBD, rollup sequencers), this changes the economics entirely. The O(n / log n) scaling means at n=1000 you're doing roughly 15-20% of the work of naive verification. The cost is implementation complexity and the all-or-nothing result issue.
5. Parallelism across cores — compounds everything above
Conceptually simple, practically very impactful. All the above optimisations apply per-core, so 8 cores running Pippenger batches simultaneously multiplies your throughput further. Bitcoin Core's IBD is the canonical real-world example of this working well.
6. Mempool caching — not cryptographic, but practically huge
Skipping re-verification of already-seen transactions is arguably the biggest real-world throughput gain in production blockchain nodes, but it's an engineering/caching problem rather than a cryptographic one.



Parallelism across cores — we tried this with threading. It made things worse because the individual work units are too small.
Maybe saying that having more/bigger transactions/block sizes would be worthwhile.



https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.28846

william
thomas - professor



Collect:
signature size
public key size
transaction size


Its easy to add classes/signatures now and so more signatures can be evaluated together



Falcon beating ECDSA on verify is expected. Falcon's verify is just a polynomial multiplication and a norm check, which is extremely cheap — especially if your liboqs build has AVX2 enabled. ECDSA verify requires a full elliptic curve scalar multiplication, which is inherently more expensive. So Falcon at 11µs vs ECDSA at 23µs is the correct ordering, not a surprise.
Falcon's 654 byte signature is variable. Falcon-512 signatures are not fixed size — they're roughly 600–900 bytes depending on the random signing process that run. 654 is on the smaller/normal end. If you look at your per_signature.csv you'll likely see it fluctuate slightly across transactions, unlike ECDSA which is always exactly 64 bytes and Dilithium which is always exactly 2420 bytes.



SLH-DSA / SPHINCS+
Mention in literature review / discussion
Usually not worth implementing for blockchain benchmarking because signature sizes are huge unless you specifically want a hash-based PQ family comparison

ALl nist standardised as they are...



https://developer.bitcoin.org/devguide/transactions.html
do i mention i ran on a second computer?


remove verify correctness
FAlcon size number range (600-900bytes)



It is not bad but it is a limitation worth being honest about. The key point is that all configurations are measured using the same JSON serialisation approach, so the comparison between configurations is still fair and valid — Dilithium will still show larger storage than ECDSA, and hybrid will still show larger than post-quantum-only. The absolute numbers just do not represent actual on-disk binary storage.
The honest way to frame it is exactly what we already have — state that it is JSON serialised byte length, acknowledge it does not represent binary on-disk size, but note that since all configurations are measured identically the relative comparisons remain meaningful. That is already in the current text so nothing needs changing.
Where it matters is in your results chapter — when you present chain size figures you should note that they reflect JSON representation and that real-world storage in a production system using binary encoding would differ, but the relative differences between configurations would be expected to follow the same pattern. That is an honest and defensible position.


appendixes

One thing was removed that should have stayed — the liboqs version mismatch paragraph originally ended with: "It is possible that it contributed to the unreliable SPHINCS+ results described in section 3.5, though this cannot be confirmed and no claim is made about causation."


So the higher throughput in commit-level is a real and explainable finding — it reflects the efficiency benefit of batching verification at the block level rather than interleaving it with signing in the transaction loop. This is actually an interesting result worth discussing in 4.2 and 4.3 because it has implications for how verification should be placed in a real blockchain system.

Mention in backgroudn research about ther ebeing 3 standardised signatures